---
layout: article
title: Baremetal Mario for Raspberry Pi 2B
key: 20170404
permalink: /projects/baremetal-mario
# cover: https://cdna.artstation.com/p/assets/images/images/014/259/400/large/sebastian-kopacz-custom.jpg?1543234486
aside:
  toc: true
# article_header:
#   type: cover
#   image:
#     src: https://cdnb.artstation.com/p/assets/images/images/014/257/445/large/sebastian-kopacz-chessboard02.jpg?1543227840
---

Group assignment for the _Computing Machinery II_ course (Computer Science 359 at the University of Calgary) where we had to make a simplified clone of Nintendo's classic _Super Mario Bros._ game for a baremetal Raspberry Pi 2B.

<!--more-->

##### [Source code](https://github.com/Beskamir/Mario-baremetal-pi2)

---
# Project Summary

## Objective

Use ARMv7 assembly to implement a simplified clone of the original Super Mario Bros. game by Nintendo on a baremetal Raspberry Pi 2B. 

## Features
- Fully written using ARMv7 Assembly.
- Uses NES controller as input. (Baremetal means we had to write the drivers ourselves)
- Goomba and turtle AI.
- Mario controller.
  - Movement (left/right or jumping)
  - Attacks (jumping on enemies)
  - Death (falling or getting hit by enemies)
- Draws images to the screen.
- Boxes can be destroyed or their items released.
- Scrolls the screen as the player moves right.
- Score system that keeps track of coins collected in the level.
- Main and pause menus.
- Level editor is a Python script that convert image representations of the levels into ARMv7 Assembly.

## Challenges
- Assembly really sucks for large projects like this.
- Very low framerate due to the assembly code not being optimized enough and not making use of branch predictions.
  - Eventually I and another friend figured out how to increase the framerate but it was after the course ended.
  - As such our game's framerate was 0.67fps for full screen refreshes if we were just using Assembly and 2-3fps for full screen refreshes if we were using C with -O4 optimization.

## My Tasks
- Everything graphics related.
  - Python scripts that converted images and sprites to assembly code for those sprites and images.
  - Figured out how to get it to run at 2-3fps instead of 0.67fps.
- NPC AI.
- Main game loop.
- Game world or level.
  - Python script that converted an image representation of the level into assembly code for that level.

## Credits
- My friend and group member Yehonatan who worked mainly on the controller, player input, physics, score system.
- Chris who helped figure out how to increase the framerate both during and after the course was over despite being in another group for the project itself.
- Nintendo for creating the original game which we were cloning.

---
